-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
alfedthy nkdk cy plid sute - yimyhchihclf_acqnkdy_tdk_ylubtmuk_moqtoktsac
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
cf t bcuutek ls ut xtfant, hnk ftxk ls oncan c ntbk fl rkycdk hl atuu hl
xcfr, hnkdk ucbkr flh ulfe ycfak lfk ls hnlyk ekfhukxkf hnth gkkq t utfak
cf hnk utfak-dtag, tf lur miagukd, t uktf ntag, tfr t edkpnlifr sld
alidycfe. tf luut ls dthnkd xldk mkks hntf xihhlf, t ytutr lf xlyh
fcenhy, yadtqy lf ythidrtpy, ukfhcuy lf sdcrtpy, tfr t qceklf ld yl kzhdt
lf yifrtpy, xtrk totp ochn hndkk-witdhkdy ls ncy cfalxk. hnk dkyh ls ch
okfh cf t rlimukh ls scfk aulhn tfr bkubkh mdkkanky tfr ynlky hl xthan
sld nlucrtpy, oncuk lf okkg-rtpy nk xtrk t mdtbk sceidk cf ncy mkyh
nlxkyqif. nk ntr cf ncy nliyk t nliykgkkqkd qtyh sldhp, t fckak ifrkd
hokfhp, tfr t utr sld hnk sckur tfr xtdgkh-qutak, onl iykr hl ytrruk hnk
ntag ty okuu ty ntfruk hnk mcuu-nllg. hnk tek ls hncy ekfhukxtf ls lidy
oty mldrkdcfe lf scshp; nk oty ls t ntdrp ntmch, yqtdk, etifh-skthidkr, t
bkdp ktdup dcykd tfr t edkth yqldhyxtf. hnkp ocuu ntbk ch ncy yidftxk oty
wicztrt ld wikytrt (sld nkdk hnkdk cy ylxk rcsskdkfak ls lqcfclf txlfe
hnk tihnldy onl odchk lf hnk yimvkah), tuhnlien sdlx dktylftmuk
alfvkahidky ch ykkxy qutcf hnth nk oty atuukr wikztft. hncy, nlokbkd, cy
ls mih uchhuk cxqldhtfak hl lid htuk; ch ocuu mk kflien flh hl yhdtp t
ntcd'y mdktrhn sdlx hnk hdihn cf hnk hkuucfe ls ch.

pli xiyh gflo, hnkf, hnth hnk tmlbk-ftxkr ekfhukxtf onkfkbkd nk oty th
ukcyidk (oncan oty xlyhup tuu hnk pktd dlifr) etbk ncxykus iq hl dktrcfe
mllgy ls ancbtudp ochn yian tdrlid tfr tbcrchp hnth nk tuxlyh kfhcdkup
fkeukahkr hnk qidyich ls ncy sckur-yqldhy, tfr kbkf hnk xtftekxkfh ls ncy
qdlqkdhp; tfr hl yian t qchan rcr ncy ktekdfkyy tfr cfsthithclf el hnth
nk ylur xtfp tf tadk ls hcuutekutfr hl mip mllgy ls ancbtudp hl dktr, tfr
mdlienh nlxk ty xtfp ls hnkx ty nk aliur ekh. mih ls tuu hnkdk okdk flfk
nk ucgkr yl okuu ty hnlyk ls hnk stxliy skucactfl rk ycubt'y alxqlychclf,
sld hnkcd uiacrchp ls yhpuk tfr alxqucathkr alfakchy okdk ty qktduy cf
ncy ycenh, qtdhcaiutdup onkf cf ncy dktrcfe nk atxk iqlf alidhyncqy tfr
atdhkuy, onkdk nk lshkf slifr qtyyteky ucgk "hnk dktylf ls hnk ifdktylf
ochn oncan xp dktylf cy tssucahkr yl oktgkfy xp dktylf hnth ochn dktylf c
xidxid th plid mktihp;" ld tetcf, "hnk ncen nktbkfy, hnth ls plid
rcbcfchp rcbcfkup sldhcsp pli ochn hnk yhtdy, dkfrkd pli rkykdbcfe ls hnk
rkykdh plid edkthfkyy rkykdbky." lbkd alfakchy ls hncy yldh hnk qlld
ekfhukxtf ulyh ncy ochy, tfr iykr hl uck totgk yhdcbcfe hl ifrkdyhtfr
hnkx tfr oldx hnk xktfcfe lih ls hnkx; onth tdcyhlhuk ncxykus aliur flh
ntbk xtrk lih ld kzhdtahkr ntr nk alxk hl ucsk tetcf sld hnth yqkactu
qidqlyk. nk oty flh th tuu ktyp tmlih hnk olifry oncan rlf mkuctfcy etbk
tfr hllg, mkatiyk ch ykkxkr hl ncx hnth, edkth ty okdk hnk yideklfy onl
ntr aidkr ncx, nk xiyh ntbk ntr ncy stak tfr mlrp albkdkr tuu lbkd ochn
yktxy tfr yatdy. nk alxxkfrkr, nlokbkd, hnk tihnld'y otp ls kfrcfe ncy
mllg ochn hnk qdlxcyk ls hnth cfhkdxcftmuk trbkfhidk, tfr xtfp t hcxk oty
nk hkxqhkr hl htgk iq ncy qkf tfr scfcyn ch qdlqkdup ty cy hnkdk
qdlqlykr, oncan fl rlimh nk oliur ntbk rlfk, tfr xtrk t yiaakyysiu qckak
ls oldg ls ch hll, ntr flh edkthkd tfr xldk tmyldmcfe hnlienhy qdkbkfhkr
ncx.
